----
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Git and Version Control"
----

## Learning more about git and open source

I've never used git much before and only had more surface level knowledge of it so this past week has been a great learning experience. Through the in class exercise and especially through working on the browser extension with my group, I feel that I have gotten way more familiar with the general git workflow. Thankfully have not run into any merge conflicts or anything, probably because the extension is a more simple project. Learning git feels like one of those useful skills I will take with me outside of college, unlike what I learn from some other courses.

It has been kind of tough looking for a project I would like to contribute to. The difficulty mainly stems from balancing factors such as my own inexperience, finding open source projects that I actually use, and seeing if they have an active community or not. I think I end up interacting with a decent amount of open source projects through using linux and self hosting stuff, but most of these projects are pretty robust and have very niche or difficult issues. Although I use services like Jellyfin and Vaultwarden, I do not have enough knowledge on related topics to make a meaningful contribution. Recently I looked at a time tracker and window manager that I used a little on my macbook, but they don't seem that active and I stated using my linux laptop as my daily driver. For now I will keep on searching for possible projects to contribute to. 
