---
layout: post
title: Week 1: Intro
---

## Open Source To Me

When I hear the term "open source" I think of collaboration and transparency. Open source has more of a positive connotation in my head as opposed to big tech companies that may do questionable things with your data. One of the reasons I love open source software is that it is usually free for anyone to use. Another advantage is that you know exactly what you are getting through the source code unlike with closed source. One disadvantage that I can think of when it comes to open source is that the barrier to entry may be higher than when it comes to using a closed source software. 

I decided to register for this open source software development class because I have always been interested in open source and how one would even get started trying to contribute to one. I am hoping to learn that through this class.


## Projects I Use

### Docker
I have gotten into self hosting recently and Docker allows me to easily host apps that I may have otherwise had a harder time setting up. I have containers always running for the following two projects so that I am able to access them. 

### Jellyfin
Jellyfin allows me to stream any media that I own through any of my devices and I have found it very convenient. 

### Vaultwarden
I use Vaultwarden as my self hosted password manager and it has been serving me very well. I have always felt a bit iffy putting all of my passwords into Google password manager, so this options feels a lot better to me.

### Vim
I have started using Vim pretty recently and have been getting used to it. I like it so far and will probably stick with it unless I find other alternatives to test as well. 
